1.What is a programming language?
=>A programming language is a set of grammatical rules and keywords that instruct a computer or device to behave in a certain way. Programming languages are used to write computer programs and computer software.

2.Why do we need a programming language?
=>Programming languages are needed for several reasons, including: 

(i)  Communication: Programming languages are a way for programmers to communicate with computers. They provide a structured way to write instructions that can be understood by the computer.

(ii) Developing applications: Programming languages are used to develop applications for performing a specific task, automating things, and more.

(iii)Speeding up processes: Programming helps in speeding up the input and output processes in a machine.

(iv) Creating software: Programming helps create software and applications that help computer and mobile users in daily life.

3.What are the features of java?
=>Features of java are following:

(i).  Simple: >Java is a simple language with a clean syntax. It is easy to learn and use.
(ii). Object-oriented: >Java is an object-oriented language. This means that everything in Java is an object. Objects have data and methods.
(iii).Portable: >Java is a portable language. This means that Java code can be run on any platform that has a Java Virtual Machine (JVM).
(iv). Secure: >Java is a secure language. This means that Java code is not allowed to access the underlying operating system.
(v).  Robust: >Java is a robust language. This means that Java code is able to handle errors gracefully.
(vi). Multithreaded: >Java is a multithreaded language. This means that Java code can run multiple tasks at the same time.
(vii).Distributed: >Java is a distributed language. This means that Java code can be run on multiple computers over a network.
(viii).Dynamic: >Java is a dynamic language. This means that Java code can be changed at runtime.

4.What is an object?
=>An object is an instance of a class, which serves as a blueprint or template defining its structure and behavior. The data within an object is represented by variables, often referred to as member variables or attributes

5.What is a class?
=> A class is a template for creating objects. It defines a set of properties and methods that are common to all objects of one type. 

6.Explain about the main() method in Java?
=>The main() method in Java is the entry point for executing a Java program. It is a static method, which means that it can be called without creating an object of the class. The main() method can contain code to execute or call other methods
Syntax:>public static void main(String[] args)